# Stylistics 文体学

# Assessment: 100 

1. Class performance 10%

2. Assignments 20%

3. Quiz 30% W12-W13: lexical, phonological, syntactical

4. Final paper 40 %

   

# 9.16

风格

文体

rhetoric and eloquence

technique of exposition

personal idiosyncrasy 个人癖好，个人习惯

choice between alternative expressions

英语文体学教程，张德禄



# 9.23

Newspaper advertisement: 

space saving, no complete sentence, abravated words

Receipe: 

mesurement, imperitive sentences

Encyclopedia: 

entry条目式的, little dash'-', informative, neutural, exact

Poem: 

seperate lines, rhyme, sharp contrast in short time, impressive

Texting message/social media: 

alphabet ？, imformal, capitalized words(volume of words), coloquial（?）expressions, real time messaging-cut short the message, simple typing, imitate the oral language.

style:

1. content
2. form
3. users
4. function

how:

1. reading experiences+linguistitcs
2. impression -> description -> interpretation
3. an analytical toolkit

features: (description+interpretation)

1. phonological features
2. lexical features
3. semantic features
4. syntactic features
5. discourse, meaning relation, etc.

formal features： 形式化特征

# 9.27

word formation 构词法

word type 词性

English words of different origins

Register and lexical choices

Rhetorical devices



构词法

derivation 派生 affixation 词缀法 （英语中的拉丁词源词，学术感，抽象感，高级感）

compounding 合成： alphabet 

blending&clipping: smog, Chinglish, exam, math, ads, fridge, prof: campus words, academic, from Greek&Latin origin, frequently used.

abbreviation: UN, USA, BBC, CIA 缩略语

acronym: LASER, AIDS, COVID, UNESCO 缩略词 lexicalization

neologism (coinage) :凭空造词. sense of defamiliarization from the reality

borrowing: 直接用外来语

calque (loan translation): honeymoon 蜜月



word type: content words/function words

# 9.30

types of nouns

1. concrete vs abstract

2. general vs specific: hyponymy上下义关系

3. lexical set（集合）: collocation 词义搭配关系

adj: derivated

types of verbs

1. notional, auxiliary, model verbs
2. action verbs (physical vs mental)
3. active vs passive voices of verbs
4. transitive vs intransitive verbs
5. lexical vs phrasal verbs

English words of differet origins: etymology

Germanic: basic vocabulary, less syllables, plain, powerful, vivid

Latinate: multisyllablic, abstract, derivational (more abstract), fancy, elegant, urban, educated, pretentious, vanity

advertisements-ads influenza-fluu refridgerator-fridge



# 10.14

Rhetorical Devices in English

1. meaning transference 意义的转移
2. meaning extension & contraction 意义的扩大与缩小
3. overstatement & understatement 
4. contradiction in logic 逻辑混乱
5. dramatic, persuasive, humorous, expressive, etc.



rhetorical devices

1. simile 明喻: overt comparison 

   metaphor 隐喻: covert comparison

2. metonomy 转喻: sth. related, The oval office is busy at work. Let me give you a hand. The pen is mighter than the sword. by **convention**, common knowledge

   (<synecdoche 提喻) : a part of sth. , Many hands make light work. Here com two black suits. by physical/visable characters

3. hyperbole 夸张

   understatement/litotes 反叙/曲语: not unlike, is not as young as she was, not a little upset

4. oxymoron 逆喻：logical contradiction

   a combination of contradictiory/incongruous words

   cruel kindness

   A victorious defeat

   Writing is busy idleness. be bust being idle

5. antithesis 反衬 the rhetorical contrast of ideas by means of parallel structure. Many are called, but few are chosen. Man propose, God disposes. To err is human, to forgive divine. 

   parallelism 排比: same or similar structure, phone, word type

6. alliteration 头韵

7. onomaopia 拟声词

8. anticlimax 反向高潮

9. zeugma 轭式结构

   

# 10.21

phonological units

1. phonemes or segments

2. supra-segmental features 超音段特征: syllables, stress, tines and intonations



phonaesthesia: sound symbolism

onomatopoeia: sound imitation

synesthetic cross-modal abstraction: 跨模态通感研究



onomatopoeia

iconicity 相似性 of human language vs arbitrariness 任意性

vivid & impressive：nursery nursery thymes, comic books, advertisement, and literary works 真实性，生动性

universal phenomenon

cultural differences：隆隆， booming（？）

translate: 

喀嚓！树枝断成了两段 crack

只有天窗上的通风机在无休止地咣当 rattle

他们哗啦跳进了泥潭里 splash

圆木在火中噼里啪啦地烧 briskly

无礼！老人怒气冲冲地哼了一声 snort 



# 10.28 super-segmental features

1. syllable structures

   syllable(onset,rhyme(nucleus, coda))

   core: vowel 

   CVC structure: consonant, vowel, consonant

   Chinese character: monosyllabic, (C)V(C: nasal consonant), 双声、叠韵

   English: multisyllablic 

   rhymes in English: sonic, poetic, mnemonic effects

   1. alliteration: **C**VC, great, grow
   2. rhyme: C**VC**, send, mend
   3. assonance: C**V**C, send, bell
   4. consonance: CV**C**, send, hand
   5. reverse rhyme: **CV**C, great, graze
   6. pararhyme: **C**V**C**, send, sound
   7. semi-rhymes: mend, ending
   8. imperfect rhymes: caring(unstressed), wing(stressed)
   9. eye rhymes/ sight rhymes: bone, none 

2. rhyming patterns in English poetry

   1. alternate rhyme: ABAB CDCD EFEF
   2. couplet: AABBCCDD
   3. enclosed rhyme: ABBA
   4. Keatsian ode: ABABCDECDE 10
   5. rhyme royal: ABABBCC BCBCCDD

# 11.4

excercise

row, row, row in a boat assonance

it **t**akes **t**wo **t**o **t**ango alliteration

this is a hit-or-miss solution assonance

publish or perish pararhyme

time and tide wait for no man  reverse rhyme

life for me ain't been no cry**st**al **st**air consonance 辅音的重复都是



metrics of English poetry

syllable->foot->meter

stressed(-) & unstressed(∪)

foot

the recurring unit of rhythm

a sequence of syllables (not words)

at least one stressed syllable

types

∪-: iambic foot "away""at once"

-∪: trochaic foot "only""hope so"

∪∪-: anapestic foot "intervene"

-∪∪: dactylic foot "happily"

meter

an sequence of the recurring foots

2. dimeter
3. trimeter
4. tetrameter
5. pentameter
6. hexameter
7. heptameter
8. octameter

stressed: 实词

blank verse：unrhymed lines in iambic pentameter 在音步里没有韵

free verse：the rhythmic pattern is not orgnized into metrical feet (irregular lines length)



heroic couplets



So long as man can breath and eyes can see

So long the rain is taking life from me

Exhaustion'n tiredness as the hell's bell pay

Me mention all deadlines as dying lay





# /*11.25

Sittting by windows on a Snowy Christmas Eve

by..

Whose noise downstairs I think I know

But dad is outside working though

He should not see me waking here

To watch our yards fill up with snow



He really is a little queer

To work over time in the eve cheer

Before the files with his head ache

The darkest evening of the year

 

That Mr.noise give tree bell shakes

And stopped as if had made smistake

For knowing how I downward creep

And beat that stranger with a stake 



His clothes is fluffy and red deep

But I got sudden urge to leap

And shoke to take before I sleep

And shoke to take before I sleep

*/

# 12.2

Syntax: The patterns, principles and rules of sentences in a given language.

Morpho-syntax: Morphology and syntax forms the core of sentence

Sentence: simple, complex, compound, compound complex



stress the subject

be evasive

acedemic writing

sentence types:

1. declarative: statement
2. interrogative: question
3. imperative:command
4. exclamative (exclamatary):exclamation

sentence length:

length by words, syllables or characters

15-20 words or 22-23 syllables (oxford guide to plain sentence)

"All short will sound stupid. All long will sound stuffy."

sentence types: structure, voice, function, length. the key: variety

# 12.9

prevail or reoccur+rare exceptions

norms and deviations in stylistics

1. norms: the regular pattern, the converntion
2. deviations: violation of the convention, the odd one

foregrounding

a new perspective, to de-familiarize (background)

deviation (the odd) and parallelism (the repetitive)

syntactic features: deviations &irregularity

1. elliptical sentences and inverted sentences

2. rhetorical questions

3. loose sentence & pierodical sentences

   stem, left branching (树枝向左), right branching (树枝向右), middel-branching (nesting, 嵌套句)



redability



# 12.16

the element of style

the sense of style



a stylistic review of one chapter

title, summary(What is the main argument), interpretation(how did Pinker elaborate on his argument? what kind of examples and techniques did he use to argue effectively?) and evaluation(what is your opinion of his argument? What are the merits and drawbacks in his argumentstion? What about his own style?)

focus on style

1200-1500 words



# 12.23 semantic features

##### the study of meaning

shades of meanings

conceptual meaning & associative meanings 概念意义&联想意义

denotative meaning & connotative meaning 外延&内涵 layer

cultural meaning & evaluative meaning 



7 types of meaning (G. Leech)

words:

conceptual meaning

connotative meaning

social meaning

affective meaning (情感意义)

word relations:

reflected meaning (人的反应（？）)

collocative menaing （聚合意义，词义搭配）

thematic menaing

##### the meaning of words (meanings & meaning relations)

euphemism 委婉语，粉饰语

pass away, restroom, the big C, laid-off workers, domestic engineer



meaning relations

synonymy, antonymy, metonymy 词义关系（synonym, antonym 词）

hyponymy 上下义关系（superordinate 上义词, hyponym下义词）

collocation: corpus linguistics, co-occur more than everage or than by chance



##### the meaning of texts (cohesion and coherence)

cohesion(form) & coherence(meaning) 衔接，连贯

->grammatical devices (conjunctions, ellipsis, )

->semantic relations

semantic field

lexical chains for coherence



# 12.30 Academic Writing

don'ts

like

thing, nothing, something

lots of, little/big, good/bad

get phrase or make phrase (all phrasal verbs)

contractions

personal pronouns (it can be assumed)

conjunction (and, but, so, 句首连词都不能要)

idioms or colloguial vocabulary

adverbs expressing personal attitude (luckily, surprisingly)

numbering and listing

The probability of crime is increasing is another phenomenon to discuss in the following parts.

Another aspect of consideration is the possiblity of crime becoming worse.

it is a negative phenomenon that currently unemployment rate is high.

sometime soon people will find a vaccine for Covid-19